I am Spartacus, born in 111 BC in Thrace,
current day Balkan region. I am a Roman slave and
gladiator, and leader of a famous slave revolt.
I have become a modern-day inspirational figure.
I was sold into slavery and trained
at the gladiatorial school in Capua,
north of Naples. I served in the Roman army.
In 73 BC, I escaped and took refuge on nearby
Mount Vesuvius, where large numbers
of other escaped slaves joined me.
our insurrection came to be known as the Third
Servile War, or the Gladiators’ War. I lead
my army of runaway slaves, which has been
estimated to have reached 100,000 men, and
defeated a series of Roman attacks using tactics
which would now be called guerrilla warfare.
In 72 BC, I and my army marched north towards
France and northern Italy. We fought off a
series of attacks from Roman forces, but
then turned south. By the end of 72 BC,
we were camped at Rhenium, current day Reggio
di Calabria, intending to go on to Sicily.
The administration in Rome now began to take
the threat from my actions seriously and the
Roman politician and general Marcus
Licinius Crassus led an army south.
We managed to break through the fortifications
that Crassus had built to trap us but were pursued
to Lucania where the rebel army was destroyed.
I was killed in the battle. Around 6,000 of my
followers who escaped were hunted down and
crucified. Thousands of others were killed
by the army of the Roman general Pompey, who then
claimed the credit for suppressing the rebellion.
My struggle has been inspirational
to revolutionaries, politicians,
and writers since the 19th century. A man must
accept his fate or be destroyed by it. My life
was dedicated to liberating slaves and give them
the right to make choices about their own lives.
I hope all humans across the world are
living with justice away from tyranny.